In this session,
I'm going to do a quick review of
what Carbon is and why it's important.
We're going to go more into detail about
the transition process and what it takes
to get your application carbonized.
And then we'll talk about some of the
development options that you face with
tools and platforms and debugging.
So, what is Carbon?
We'll simply put it's APIs that you
can write to in the Mac OS toolbox
so that your application will
run on the 8.1 through 10.
As Scott Forstall pointed out on Monday,
Carbon is a living organism.
As Apple is reviewing the APIs,
developer feedback is very important
and it has made a severe impact,
severe that sounds bad,
a great impact on some of the
decisions that Apple has made about
whether to keep or remove APIs.
Some APIs have to be removed because
they just simply wouldn't work in a
modern operating system environment
and some because our evaluation of how
much they're being used would indicate
that we should no longer support it,
but developer feedback has often
made an impact on those decisions.
So this mailing list is self-subscribe
and if you go ahead and add yourself
to that and begin discussing with
other developers and Apple employees
that are on this mailing list,
your feedback will be very important.
feedback will definitely be incorporated.
So, why Carbon?
Well,
I think before we talk about why Carbon,
we have to review why Mac OS X.
And as Scott also pointed out on Monday,
Mac OS X is bringing a lot to the
Mac OS platform that simply isn't there
enough with Mac OS 8 and 9 right now.
And those things are stability
because of protected memory,
performance and responsiveness
because of preempted multitasking,
Aqua,
which is just an amazing user experience,
you've all seen that,
a virtually unlimited memory,
no more finder panels,
no more having to close your app,
open the panel, guess the right number,
and relaunch your app,
and application packaging,
which is delivering multiple
languages without having to install
a different version of the app
or a different version of the OS,
and simple.
All incorporated into a folder,
but to the user it looks
like one finder item.
So now back to why Carbon.
Well, all those great things are
coming to us because of Mac OS X,
but all the applications that
the user has to use are not.
The applications that the users are
using for productivity are on 8 and 9,
and that's where Carbon comes into play.
Carbon is Apple's answer to
how we're going to incorporate
these two great environments,
Mac OS 8 and 9 applications,
which are so many,
and Mac OS X bringing the modern
operating system environment.
It gives us a great user
experience on a robust platform.
So the transition process.
It's pretty straightforward.
I actually prefer to call
it a tune-up process.
I was reviewing some of
the documentation we have,
and I like this term better
because I think it's more accurate.
Tune-up is kind of getting in
shape just parts of your app that
need to be changed a little bit to
work better in a modern operating
system environment like Mac OS X.
So the first thing you're going
to want to do is use CarbonDator.
I'm going to go into all
of this in more detail,
but I just wanted to give
an overview of the process.
CarbonDator is a tool that Apple has
made so that you can preview required
changes that are going to be coming
to your application before you
really start a lot of the work.
Then you're going to want to
download the CarbonLive SDK,
which has pretty much everything
you'll need to get going.
And then you start the tune-up.
Whoa, here we go.
Fixing compiler errors,
using alternative or modified APIs for
those that are no longer supported.
and you're going to link
against Carbon stub.
Then you're going to run on Mac OS 9,
which is cool, but as Mike Garcia from
Quark said on Monday,
when you run on Mac OS X,
it's really fun.
It really is.
So, CarbonDator, like I said,
allows you to preview required changes.
It's very simple.
You download a tool,
you drag your app onto it,
CarbonDator spits out a file,
you mail that to Apple at
an email address that's
specified in the documentation,
and in about an hour you get back
an HTML report that gives you a
detail of the APIs you're using
that are unsupported or modified.
So, this was mine.
I came into developer relations
last summer and before that I was
working on a project in engineering.
I don't know if any of you have had
the chance to see a new Macintosh
boot within the past nine months,
but it starts playing a flashy
movie and it allows the user to
register and get an internet account.
Have any of you seen that?
I don't know.
Yeah?
Okay, cool.
That was my engineering project.
I was working on the
user experience side.
Another great guy was
working on the back end,
the internet and registration side.
So, anyway,
when I was coming to developer relations,
I wanted to get a really
good feel for the experience
the developers were having,
so I emailed the application to
CarbonDator and this was a sample
of the report that came back.
So, as you can see,
90% of the APIs that I was
using were just supported.
That's actually a low number.
I think it's because I was
a system software engineer.
So, we use APIs that, I don't know,
aren't always supported
or at least publicized.
So,
your application will probably report a
much higher number for supported APIs.
8% were unsupported and a
small percentage were either
modified or not recommended,
which means in a while
they would be unsupported.
So after you kind of get a feel for
the changes that are going to be made,
go ahead and download
the Carbon Live SDK.
The contents of it are
the Carbon Porting Guide.
Really, the Carbon Porting Guide is
going to be your major guide
through this whole process.
It's a much deeper,
in-depth discussion of the kind
of stuff I'm talking about today.
You'll get the latest
universal interfaces,
which you'll need to keep up
with the APIs that are constantly
being reviewed and set for Carbon.
A lot of the APIs are still
being reviewed as to whether we
will permanently support them.
And then you're going to link
against one of two stubs,
and I'll explain the difference
between those in a few minutes.
There's the Carbon Live extension,
so that you can run your
software on Mac OS 8 or 9.
Documentation and sample code.
So with this stuff, you're all set.
You're ready to go.
There are currently two SDKs
for Carbon Live shipping.
Carbon Live 104 has gone GM and
is available via download from
Apple's software update mechanism,
and it's available on our developer site
on the public area development kits.
And Carbon Live 11 is currently
under development and being
seeded about every two weeks,
and you can get that from your
Apple developer connection account.
Once you log in,
just click download software and
go to the Carbon Live section,
and the Carbon Live 11 SDK will be there.
For Carbon Live,
I'm actually going to be going into
depth about that much more tomorrow,
Thursday, in the Civic Center at 5:00.
So if you want to learn more about
Carbon Live and Carbon on Mac OS 8 and 9,
please be sure to attend that session.
So, the very,
very first step about Carbonizing your
application has to do with 68K code.
There's just none.
So there's no 68K code involved with
Mac OS X or Carbon applications.
And that's all I got to say about that.
So the next step, once you're there,
you're ready, you're set, go.
You wave this big flag,
target API Mac Carbon.
So I got to say that at first
you're going to hate this flag,
because if I could say that
Universal Interfaces had a mood,
when you turn this flag on,
they get really fussy.
And when you go to
rebuild your application,
it's just going to start
raining compiler errors.
So perhaps many of you have
already experienced this.
But the good news is that
they're so easy to fix.
I got to be honest, they're so tedious.
But ending on the good note,
they're so easy.
So it's just a lot of grunt work.
And in some kitchens that we
had during the past nine months,
I've seen developers show up with
just agony as they see the number
of compiler errors coming in.
They projected like two weeks,
which the kitchen was
only running a week.
And we just thought, all right, well,
go for it,
and call me when it's up on 10:00.
Or whatever.
I don't know.
But two days later, they were all done.
So it goes a lot faster
than most people think.
So what are these compiler errors?
Well, Scott Forstall referred
to them on Monday.
Most of them are coming from
the fact that we've made the
toolbox data structures opaque.
We've kind of kicked you guys
out of touching them directly,
but that's such a good thing because now
Apple can keep moving the OS forward and
not break your applications every time
we have to change something in there.
It also allows us to add re-entrancy
to the toolbox for thread safety.
The other type of error is
generic universal proc pointers
are no longer supported.
Each toolbox manager now
has specifically typed UPPs.
So,
to take a deeper look at some of those,
graph ports and friends are the
most common errors that you'll see.
On Mac OS 9, a dialog is a window,
is a graph pointer.
And we all know that we're so used to
casting those and using them as such,
but on Mac OS X they are not,
and therefore, Carbon, they're not.
So in order to do that,
you need to use casting functions,
and these are a sample of a
lot of the casting functions,
or even just accessor functions that
are available in Universal Interfaces.
If you want to get the
field from a record,
the convention is get_record_field.
So get_window_port or get_dialog_window.
For specific real objects,
not just a field of an object,
but ports and windows, if you have that,
you can get the containing record by
using the convention get_window_from_port
or get_dialog_from_window.
So these conventions are followed
throughout the Universal Interfaces,
so when you're looking for
that accessor function key,
accessor function, keep this in mind.
So here's an example.
In the top line we see what
we've all been using today.
We want to get the left field
of a bounding box of a region.
And so we just dereference the
region and access the field directly.
But in Carbon you can
see what it becomes.
You have to use the accessor
getRegionBounds and pass it a variable
in which it's going to fill out
the rect with the value of the bounds.
It also returns a pointer to your
variable just so you can then
immediately start accessing it,
as you can see there.
So there is some good news.
I don't know why.
I think I was tired
when I wrote this slide,
but there's good news.
Rects are not opaque.
So I just can't even imagine the number
of compiler errors that we would be
getting if we had made rects opaque.
I know.
All right.
Universal proc pointers.
Why do we still have them?
Well, as you know,
they came into being when we started
having two kind of runtime architectures,
PowerPC and 68K.
And we still do with Mac OS X.
We have CFM, which is familiar to all
of us with Mac OS 8 and 9.
But when we brought in the
OS that Mac OS X is built on,
Maco was its native runtime.
And we still support those two runtimes.
So universal proc pointers
are there to help us.
But the generic routines,
new routine descriptor and dispose
routine descriptor are gone.
And you have to use specific
ones from the toolbox manager.
So here's an example.
As you can see in the top one,
we're using a new routine descriptor
and dispose routine descriptor.
But now, if you were to look in
the universal interfaces,
you'd see these APIs,
new control action UPP and
dispose control action UPP.
That's an example of a a toolbox manager.
So one important thing that
I wanted to be honest about is that
CarbonDator does not necessarily
report these types of compiler errors.
So I had one developer
come up to me and say,
"CarbonDator said I only had to
change eight APIs." And I was like,
"Oh." Because when he turned on the flag,
he of course started getting
these other types of compiler
errors that are involved with
carbonizing your application.
So now we're going to kind of go down
the road that we've all been traveling to
get a Mac OS 8 or 9 application on board.
We're going to see that some of the
roads are closed and we have detours.
And I'm just going to review
some of the highlights,
ones that I have seen specifically
impact developers in the past year.
Again, use your Carbon porting guide
for an in-depth coverage of
pretty much all of the gotchas
that we know about at this time.
The biggest one that I've seen hit
people is that the window manager
port is no longer supported.
So you cannot draw
globally to the screen.
We do have some detours.
For window dragging and resizing,
Carbon Events is supported.
As Carbon Events sends your
window handler messages,
you can go ahead and grab the event,
modify some parameters,
and the system will
begin respecting those.
So if you wanted to snap-drag the
window or do constrained resizing.
Go ahead and use Carbon Events.
For other types of specific drags,
the drag manager should meet your needs.
We really do want you
to send us feedback,
though, if your app's using the window
manager port in a way that we're
not providing a workaround for.
At this time, in our analysis of the way
that developers have been
using the window manager port,
we don't see a compelling need to
re-enable that type of user interface
capability or mechanism for you.
So far, the cases that we have seen do
not fall within the Macintosh
Human Interface Guidelines,
and there are an alternative
to those cases that we've seen.
So we're not going to be providing a
generic workaround for this mechanism.
Again, if you want to give us feedback,
join that mailing list
and just send it there.
The Trap Manager:
So patching is completely unsupported
within Carbon and Mac OS X.
It works against stability
and it was 68k specific.
So the new message is that
Carbon Events within an application
is providing a great way to
modify the behavior of the system
in a very sanctioned easy way.
And for other things we're
providing hooks within the
APIs that were not there before.
So the message is that if you
were using patching for something,
actually on the mailing list or to me,
please just send the highest level
goal that you've been trying to
achieve with patching and we'll see
if we can go ahead and incorporate
sanctioned official APIs within the
OS that you can use to get that going.
Because generic patching
is no longer supported.
Help.
Apple Guide Manager is unsupported
and Balloon Help is unsupported.
So you may find these things just
automatically being respected
on Mac OS 8 and 9 because those
technologies are still there,
but on Mac OS X they're not.
So the alternative is to use
Apple Help Viewer instead
and to use Apple Help Tags.
One thing to note is that
Apple Help Viewer was not brought
back to Mac OS 8.1 in Carbon Live,
and so you have to launch
your HTML help in a browser.
Printing.
There's a new printing
architecture in Carbon,
but the APIs are so similar that
it's almost a one-for-one copy of
a name change for your transition,
so it's really easy.
Game Sprockets.
I'm just going to touch on this.
There are sessions about
gaming in this conference,
but Draw Sprockets are going
to be supported post-DP4,
so they're not there yet.
Input Sprockets.
On Mac OS X, the HID Manager is replacing
this and will be available to
Carbon applications for APIs.
You don't have to go down into the
Mac OS layer and access those APIs on X.
Net Sprockets.
We've open sourced,
so if you still want to continue using
the functionality of Net Sprocket,
you can go get the source
code and incorporate that
directly into your application.
And on Mac OS X, Sound Sprocket is being
replaced by Core Audio.
I think the Input Sprocket and
Sound Sprocket sessions are
still coming within the week,
so be sure to attend
those if this affects you.
Networking Open transport
has changed slightly.
So,
MAC TCP is not supported within Carbon.
And open transport,
the basic change is that when you
initialize open transport at the
beginning of your application,
you now get back a context ref.
And now you just start passing
that context ref as the first
parameter to open transport APIs,
and that's pretty much
the gist of the change.
So, it's very easy.
And Apple Talk APIs are not
available in the Carbon API set.
So, if you are using those,
you should move over to open transport.
The stacks are still there.
The technology providing that
type of networking is still on 8,
9, and 10.
And if you wanted to go ahead and
access those AppleTalk APIs on 10,
they are actually available in
the AppleTalk framework on 10.
They're just not made available
through the Carbon API layer
to Carbon applications.
This has been said many times,
but threads in Carbon are going
to remain cooperative if you've
been using thread manager threads.
If you want preemptive threads,
go ahead and use the
multi-processing APIs.
And many people ask,
"What about pthreads?" So it's
important to know that Carbon MP threads
are pretty much... Sorry,
MP threads are pretty
much pthreads on Mac OS X.
MP threads, pthreads.
So, plugins and Carbon.
Plugins must be Carbonized to work
with your Carbon application on 10.
On Mac OS 8 and 9,
a Carbon application can load and run
a non-Carbonized plugin because the
code fragments are prepared separately.
But on 10, of course,
all software must be Carbonized.
There are a lot of common memory
management architectures use zones for
handling the memory of their plugins.
On 8 and 9, that's still available,
so that'll work.
But zones are not a concept on Mac OS X,
and so that type of memory architecture
would not work for plugins on Mac OS X.
CFPlugin and CFBundle are two
classes that we're providing
within the core foundation,
a new set of APIs available
to Carbon developers.
And those sessions are coming right
after this and starting in the fall.
These are actually talked about in the
advanced session of core foundation.
So if this affects you,
I encourage you to go to those sessions.
So, not all APIs that control stuff on
Mac OS 8 or 9 or Mac OS X can be brought
up to the Carbon layer through one API.
And that's mostly because
of the nature of the APIs.
They just simply behave differently
on Mac OS 8 or 9 and Mac OS X.
And accomplishing these purposes
is not the most pleasant
thing for Carbon developers,
so before we go into it,
we've provided you this pretty
picture of a fork in the road,
because that's what we're about to do.
We're about to fork in the road.
So, let this picture in and get in a
good mood so we'll talk about this.
As I said, not all APIs can be brought
up to Carbon applications.
At that time,
you have to begin and branch
and use OS-specific APIs.
So, the basic way that you do that is
you factor all of your code that is
Carbonized up into your application
and factor all of your code that
will either run on 8 or 9 or on
10 down into shared libraries,
and then you load those as a plug-in when
you're running on the relevant platform.
The two biggest ones, well,
the first one is hardware interfaces.
Hardware access is simply OS-specific,
and therefore it's not part of Carbon.
The SCSI manager will
be partially supported,
but that's mostly to support scanners.
So for other hardware
devices on Mac OS 8 and 9,
you'll continue using the Device Manager,
the Comms Toolbox, and on Mac OS X,
you'll use I/O Kit.
For shared memory on Mac OS 8 or 9,
you'll continue to use your
current mechanism for however
you're doing shared memory.
New pointers, this is a common one.
Also,
attaching to a shared library that has
a global data section is another one,
and that will work on 8 and 9,
but not on 10.
For Mac OS X,
you have to use the POSIX APIs.
Again, these APIs could not be brought up
to the Carbon applications with one
single "it works all the time" API,
because the nature of shared memory on
the two systems is somewhat different.
On Mac OS X,
you'll need to use the POSIX shared
memory APIs and the semaphores
for controlling access to those.
So enough with downsizing.
I've been talking about
all these APIs that we've
taken away or that modified.
And the good news is that Carbon is also
bringing a lot of new technology to you.
I'm just going to touch
on some highlights.
There are sessions devoted
to each of these new things.
Carbon Events was yesterday.
It's an amazing technology
that dispatches events
directly to your controls and
windows within an application.
Completely takes care of a lot of
the default functionality that you've
had to just cut and paste a lot of
code in just to get your app to keep
doing what it already is doing today.
That's all been put into the system
and default functionality is available.
It's really easy to override.
The system handlers,
you can just stack your own on top
of it and override functionality.
Or if you don't want to
override specific functionality,
you just keep calling down
into the stack and the system
handler will take care of that.
And there are many more features
that make development easier.
Timers are one that stand out as
one of the greatest things about it
that make your development easier.
for idle processing.
An important thing to note about
Carbon Events is that it's not
required to port your app to Carbon.
So a lot of people are
concerned about that.
You wouldn't have to do anything with
Carbon Events to get your application
as it is over to Mac OS X or Carbon.
However, a lot of the new technologies
that are being introduced,
like Sheets and some printing stuff,
those are beginning to only be
available through Carbon Events.
But the good news is that
it's all gradual adoption.
You can install one handler
and keep doing everything
else via the Wait Next event.
Ed Vos had gone into that in detail
yesterday in the Carbon Event sessions.
Core Foundation is a set of
APIs that were factored down out of
the frameworks that we had adopted
with Mac OS X's original OS from
Next and now made available to
Carbon applications in its own framework.
And it has a lot of services
that are good to use.
Unicode strings for easier
localization is available.
Collections, arrays, and dictionaries,
things we all re-implement or
get from a framework today.
Preferences management,
there's a class that helps you
manage your preferences via
Carbon so that they just work on 8,
9, or 10.
XML parsing, URLs, and plugin support.
And another class that I'm not
mentioning here is application packaging,
the new folder hierarchy and layout.
There's a class called CFBundle that
acts on your behalf as an abstraction
layer to all of the resources
and locations of stuff that
you've put in your application.
And I pretty much see a bundle and
the preferences management class,
I would go as far as to say
that those are kind of required
concepts for a Carbon application.
To work well in both environments,
you just simply need to use those
or else when Apple goes to make
some change in the future and
you're hard coding knowledge when we
provided these abstraction layers,
you would break.
So be sure to learn about those.
And the data browser,
the long awaited data browser.
This is a system control for list views.
It supports the browser column
view and hierarchical list view.
And it's used by many system
applications including the finder,
I think file sharing, Sherlock,
and now services.
So there's also a session about that.
So I'm pointing to these.
The core foundation, basics,
and advanced sessions are listed here.
And also the data browser session.
So if you're interested in
any of those technologies,
please be sure to attend that.
companies.
So with Carbon, you used to link against
a bunch of stub libraries,
but with Carbon, there's just one,
and it's Carbon Stub.
It's no longer Interface Live,
Appearance Live, QuickTime Live,
one stub library.
On the CD that you received this week,
there's a CarbonStub9 and a CarbonStub10.
If any of you have been already
using the CarbonLib SDK,
this is the replacement for
the CarbonLib stub library.
And the reason that we did
this is because at this time,
CarbonLib seeds are a
little behind on some APIs.
The main one was CarbonEvents.
So the APIs for CarbonEvents in
Mac OS X are a little further along.
And a lot of developers were wanting
to get through it right away.
So if you're going to use CarbonEvents,
you go ahead and use CarbonStub10,
link against it,
and run your application on 10.
If you run it on 9,
you would get link errors.
But if you want to just keep
right now developing on 9,
go ahead and use CarbonStub9.
And you can go ahead and
use the CarbonEvents APIs.
They're pretty much going to
just be name changes only.
So let's talk about development options.
You have a couple decisions facing you as
you proceed into all of this Carbon work.
There are two run times that you'll
need to consider and think about
tools and debugging techniques.
So the first decision is CFM versus MacO.
So there are pros and cons to each.
For CFM, you will get to have a single
executable that will run on Mac OS X 8,
9, and 10.
On 8 and 9,
also plug-in architectures that
exist today will probably just work.
The drawback to CFM is that
you have limited access to
Mac OS X native services,
such as the ones I already talked about,
and that's when you have to begin
doing the factoring your shared
libraries and loading them as plug-ins.
For MacO,
if you were a Carbon MacO application
running on Mac OS X,
the APIs available on 10 would just
be available to your application.
You don't have to do the
factor and load the plug-in.
But you would be leaving Mac OS 8
and 9 behind because that runtime
is not available on those platforms.
So those are things to think about as you
go ahead and decide what you're going to
do for your Carbon application delivery.
Development Tools.
Apple has just this week
announced our new project builder,
and Interface Builder has been there.
These are advanced tools for kind
of a next generation experience
of developing your application.
They do support Carbon terms.
A lot of news is coming out
this week about what these
tools can do and everything,
so I'm just going to touch on
these and recommend that you go
to those sessions because they're
just reporting on a lot of changes
and updates that they're making,
speaking to future functionality
that they intend to support.
And of course,
MetroWorks development tools,
CodeWarrior and PowerPlant,
support Carbon.
PowerPlant 2.1 and CodeWarrior Pro 6
is the release going on right now.
CodeWarrior Pro 5 also supports
Carbon development pretty well.
Let's see.
So step one is usually you
make all your compiler changes,
you modify APIs that you've changed,
and then you want to bring up the app.
So usually developers go ahead
and try to start bringing it up
on Mac OS 8 or 9 with CarbonLog.
They get to stay on the one
platform and just keep fixing
bugs there until it's going.
And then they usually switch and
start bringing it over to Mac OS X.
I'm starting to guess a number of things.
In the kitchens,
when developers finish carbonizing
their applications on 8 and 9,
they kind of get the deer with
the headlights look when we say,
"Well, why don't you try to ring it
up on 10?" Because they just,
I don't know.
I would say that we regularly
experience about three to seven hiccups,
that's what I call them,
when you try to bring them up on 10.
Bugs that just didn't
show up on eight or nine.
The good news is that,
as Bertrand and Scott alluded
to earlier this week,
Carbon on Mac OS X is developer complete.
And by that,
we mean it's a very stable environment,
providing almost all functionality that
you need to carbonize your application.
More and more now,
when developers are bringing
their application up on 10,
the hiccups that I was talking about are
actually in your code instead of ours,
which was not the case at the beginning.
The most common one, of course,
is memory access.
So you will not believe how many
writing tunnels have been existing in
your applications on eight and nine
all this time until you run it on 10.
So the other alternative is to
do all development on Mac OS X.
On Project Builder and Interface Builder,
our native tools to 10,
the performance tools
for Mac OS are excellent.
And GDB, the native debugger on Mac OS X,
provides a UI through Project Builder
for this debugging experience.
So like I said,
the tools experience is changing a
lot even this week as the developers
are making their announcements.
In the past right now,
the common experience has been that when
you bring your application over to 10,
you've had to do two machine debugging.
So you have your eight and nine machine.
You'd move your app over to 10.
CodeWarrior's debugger would
talk over the network to GDB,
and GDB would feedback information.
And you'd pretty much have
your CodeWarrior experience.
However, because of this,
a lot of times when
the app crashed on 10,
CodeWarrior would not really be
able to come through and report
the errors that you were seeing.
And then you'd have to
move over to the 10 box,
launch your application with GDB,
see where it crashed,
and get a backtrace.
And that's actually a very reliable
way to find out at least where
your application is crashing.
And then after that,
developers would usually then go
back to the eight and nine machine
and step towards that place where
they know their app was crashing so
that they could view the variables
and parameters in CodeWarrior.
Because GDB, again,
a lot of announcements
are being made this week,
but at that time,
GDB could not show you the values
of variables and parameters for a
CFM application built with CodeWarrior.
So that was kind of why
that process was existing.
But again, a lot of this is changing.
So, a bonus of getting your application
over to Mac OS X is that our
experience from developers has been
that they're finding bugs faster.
Like I said,
memory exceptions are the main one.
I have a true story.
A friend of mine works at a company,
and they had a contractor on
board doing their Carbon work.
And he kept saying to them,
"You should get your application
on X as soon as possible." Well,
of course we should.
But he knew what he was talking about.
He knew the benefit that would come.
So, after a while, they got it up on X,
and they kind of started realizing, "Wow,
Mac OS X reveals a lot of stuff
a lot faster than Mac OS 8 or
9 did." And they specifically
were looking for this one bug.
It was a memory bug.
And I think that they were anticipating,
you know how, like, after a while,
you just start getting a feel
for how much time you know you're
going to be spending on this bug?
And their estimate was two hours.
And, you know,
the contractor reminded them.
"Try it on X." And I think
they found it in 15 minutes.
So, again, you know,
getting your application on to
X as soon as possible will start
a lot of time saving for this.
And make your 8 and 9
code a lot more robust,
too.
So, the tool sessions this week,
the first one already occurred,
so I'm just pointing
it out to let you know,
and I hope you were able to make it
to that to hear the announcements.
Right after this is a session called
Transitioning to the New Project Builder.
Because you're in this room,
you're missing the first one,
which is Introduction to Project Builder.
My understanding is that this
session is actually targeted towards
developers who are used to the
Code Warrior experience and want to
understand Project Builder better.
And then lastly, I want to stress enough,
session 196,
Debugging Your Applications on Mac OS X,
do not miss this session.
So, the Carbon Porting Guide is there,
Carbon Live is there,
getting your application up
on 8 and 9 has been there.
The part where we've most had to help
developers with kind of just hand-holding
attention is getting their app up on 10.
It's where they hit the hiccups and it's
where you need to learn new techniques.
So, please don't miss that session.
So like I said,
once you've got all that going,
you're going to be running
your application on 8 and 9,
and the fun part is
running it on Mac OS X.
There are some runtime
issues to think about.
The first one is that just because the
Carbon APIs are included all in one set,
that doesn't mean that all of those
APIs and their implementation are
available on every version of the OS.
But that's how it is already today.
So for example, if you were using
Nav Services on Mac OS 8.1,
new APIs were introduced
to it in 1.1 on 8.5.
But that doesn't mean all of a sudden
those APIs are then available on 8.1.
So we're all used to doing a
Gestalt check to make sure that
the latest version of a technology
is running indeed on the specific
machine that you're running,
and that's true with Carbon.
So all the APIs are kind of one big set.
You still have to do
runtime checks on them.
So you still have to do runtime checks
to make sure those APIs are available
on the machine that you're running.
This is kind of a picture,
Scott Forstall showed this on Monday.
Carbon is a living, growing thing.
And as you can see,
more and more APIs have become
available with each release of the OS.
And that is true.
Carbon exposes those APIs to your
Carbon application when you're running
on the OS that supports those APIs.
And also,
the good news about Carbon is that we are
indeed bringing back some technologies,
like Carbon Events, Core Foundation,
Carbon Printing, Data Browser.
Another issue to think about when you're
running a Carbon application is memory.
So, one binary,
but running in two very different
environments concerning memory.
On Mac OS X, an application has
virtually unlimited memory.
You should use this gestalt
to make sure of the memory
environment you're running in.
Be careful when using freemem.
So, one common technique that developers
I know have used is they call freemem
and allocate a number of different
[Transcript missing]
So, I was sleepy when I wrote
this slide and I was thinking,
"I can't put that up today,
but be sleepy." So what does that mean?
What that means is that
a Carbon application,
its sleep time that's passed to wait
next event is fully supported now.
It's not like you sleep but
get null events in the interim.
That's just not the way
to idle time anymore.
You should really use a custom
mechanism of your own if you're
going to be using Carbon Lab 1.0.2,
3, or 4.
Or Carbon Events Timers if you're
using Carbon Lab 1.1 or Mac OS X.
That's the appropriate way to get
idle time for your application.
So, some of you, because of this,
are going to be tempted to lower your
sleep values down so that you can keep
getting time back on the processor.
That is not recommended,
and we really do want you to
switch to these other mechanisms.
We're hoping that all of you will be able
to switch to passing the constant for the
longest sleep time to wait next event.
Because otherwise,
your application just keeps
requesting time that it doesn't
necessarily always need.
And in the new preemptive
environment on Mac OS X,
and even on Mac OS X8 or 9,
we don't want to be seeing that happen.
So I wanted to point out one
sample scenario that we had
experienced that revealed the
nature of this change in Carbon.
One developer,
when they launched their application,
or when they pulled down their about box,
they started scrolling
the credits and stuff,
and then they stopped.
When they brought that app,
we were just also like, "Well,
what's that?" But it turns out
that indeed this application was
using or counting on null events
to do idle time processing to
scroll the text in the about box.
The interesting thing is that
if you started moving the mouse,
the text just started scrolling normally,
but that's because the app started
receiving mouse moved events.
So that's kind of a symptom that
you should keep in mind when you're
trying to look out for the nature
of this change with Carbon apps.
We haven't confirmed this yet,
but another developer was complaining
about slower processing of a
lot of data in the application,
and we're suspecting that this
might also be the problem.
If they're using or counting on null
events to get processing time for
this huge calculation they're doing,
this would not work.
That wouldn't work for
them that way anymore.
So a couple sessions that
I wanted to point out,
Carbon on Mac OS 8 or 9,
we'll talk about a few more
runtime issues that your app will
experience when running on 8 and 9.
And session 130, Carbon Level,
is a really important session to
learn about some runtime issues that
will affect your Carbon application
when running on Mac OS X.
So I would really stress that
you make it to that session.
And it's a Friday at 5:00 in this room.
And I got a lot of flack
for scheduling at that time,
so you all have to come,
or else I'm going to get it.
So, no, I'm just kidding.
But it's really critical information,
stuff that I'm not going into here
because it's going to be in that session.
So Carbon magic, what do I mean by that?
And is it really true?
Well, like I said,
in the kitchens and just
talking to a lot of developers,
they kind of get this
look and they're like,
let me get this straight.
You're telling me that if I modify my
source code in some appropriate way,
Apple's going to be able to swap out an
entire OS from underneath my application,
swap in a completely new one,
and I'm just going to work?
It sounds, well, magic is a strong word,
but it was the one that stuck out in
my mind that this person had used.
And the good news is
that with confidence,
I get to say, yes, really.
And I'm not just saying
this based on speculation.
I'm saying it from experience
in some kitchens that we've had.
And a lot of the demos that
you saw earlier this week,
applications are just coming up on
10 after they do their Carbon work.
Like I said, traditionally,
they're about three to seven hiccups.
And it's really fun to
watch the developers' face,
you know, because they're just, oh,
my gosh, you know, like here it comes up.
on Mac OS X.
When I first, yeah,
I started this job last summer.
We had a kitchen in October.
And I remember the first time, you know,
a major application came up on Mac OS X.
And I was standing there, you know,
because I believed in this technology.
We'd seen it working internally at Apple.
But, you know, you bring in developers.
And I don't know their source code.
I don't know all the
stuff they've been doing.
And the developer had
finished carbonizing.
And we were bringing it over to X.
And they had a couple of hiccups.
And then it just started coming up on X.
And I remember my reaction.
I was like, oh, my gosh.
You know, and then, of course,
I had to switch to Apple and go, oh,
of course.
Yeah, that, you know,
of course that would work.
You know, but anyway,
over time with experience,
I'd see developers with
that look on their face.
The second time, I think I was like,
I'm pretty sure, you know,
because I just had that experience.
But now developers come in.
And without any hesitation,
that happens just over
and over and over again.
And so it's magic.
Well, it's true.
It really works.
So if you want to get more
information about Carbon,
please be sure to see our website,
developer.apple.com.
If you go to the Mac OS X section,
underneath that is a Carbon section.
There's a pointer to the
SDK and documentation there.
You can also get directly to the
documentation via TechPub's Carbon.
Specifically, the Carbon porting guide,
which I've already mentioned,
comes in the SDK.
Another important resource to
keep in mind is the Carbon.
That is all on the web.
But that is a comprehensive
list of APIs in Carbon.
APIs are still being
reviewed at this time.
So if you go to the website and you see
an API and it's marked under evaluation,
that means that we're still
going through API reviews,
making sure that those APIs will
work in all the environments that
a Carbon application will exist in,
like a modern OS, preemptive environment.
Thread safety.
And if so,
the API will be approved and you'll
see that change to supported.
But the thing to keep in mind
is that those APIs that are
marked as still under evaluation,
we are not committing to support those.
So you just need to know that if
you're going to go ahead and use those,
that label could at some
point change to unsupported.
But of course, we've been providing
workarounds and alternatives.
I just wanted to be clear about
what that label means on the spec.
Scott mentioned this on Monday,
but I just wanted to mention it again.
If you go to this website,
developer.apple.com,
go to the marketing section, programs,
Carbon.
I think we have about five right now,
five consulting firms that are providing
services to just port your application.
So if resources are an issue,
and I know they are in this industry,
and you need to get
your application ported,
please be sure to visit this
website for those services.
A couple other sessions that I wanted
to point you to are the High-Level
Toolbox Carbon Enhancements 1 and 2.
They're also going to go into the types
of changes that I was discussing today,
but specific to the High-Level Toolbox,
so be sure to do those.
I'm not going to guess
a percentage number,
because I didn't think I had time,
but a very large percentage of
the compiler errors and changes
that Carbon developers experience
come from the High-Level Toolbox.
So be sure to attend these sessions
because they contain critical information
that you'll want to know as you proceed
with carbonizing your application.
So this time we're going to move
into Q&A and I'd like to ask the
panelists to come up on stage.